---
layout: post
title:  "Presentations at AGU Fall Meeting 2022"
---

I can't believe it's already time for AGU Fall Meeting! I will be there all week. On Tuesday, I have a poster on DupuitLEM, the groundwater-landscape evolution model that I developed for my doctoral work. I talk about the model itself, and also some more general considerations for coupling processes that operate on very different timescales. On Thursday I have a talk that focuses on some of the hydrological implications of my work with this model. We show how variable source areas emerge when changing subsurface properties and climate, and how ultimately the relationship between topography and landscape morphology described in the Dunne Diagram (Dunne 1978) emerges as a result of coevolution. Lots of exciting work to be done here.

I'm also a co-author on several presentations that are re-examining classic trenched hillslope at Panola Mountain research watershed (of fill-and-spill fame) in light of new geophysical datasets collected by the Bedrock Critical Zone Collaborative Network, including one by Sam Motz, who I co-supervised this summer as an REU student. Looking forward to seeing you there!

### [DupuitLEM and the Search for Fundamental Insights into the Coevolution of Landscape Hydrology and Geomorphology (Invited)](https://agu.confex.com/agu/fm22/meetingapp.cgi/Paper/1066238)
*Session: EP25D - Modeling Earth Surface Processes Using Community Surface-Dynamics Software Poster*
*Time: Tuesday December 13, 3-6:00 PM CST*

### [The Geomorphic Origins of Variable Source Area Hydrology](https://agu.confex.com/agu/fm22/meetingapp.cgi/Paper/1066158)
*Session: H43D - Runoff Generation Processes: Exploring Thresholds, Sources, and Pathways from Plot to Continental Scales I Oral*
*Time: Thursday December 15, 11:00 AM - 12:30 PM CST*

### [Defining Spatial Heterogeneity: Using Ground Penetrating Radar to Map the Boundaries between Soil, Saprolite, and Bedrock in the Critical Zone](https://agu.confex.com/agu/fm22/meetingapp.cgi/Paper/1150587)
*Session: NS32B - Near-Surface Geophysics in the Critical Zone*
*Time: Wednesday December 14, 9:00 AM - 12:30 AM CST*

### [Looking for the Fill-and-Spill Mechanism with Ground Penetrating Radar–Panola Mountain, Georgia](https://agu.confex.com/agu/fm22/meetingapp.cgi/Paper/1166507)
*Session: NS32B - Near-Surface Geophysics in the Critical Zone*
*Time: Wednesday December 14, 9:00 AM - 12:30 AM CST*
